So with mongoose installed, let's use it. On
nodejs, so on our backend, we'll add the schema for that.
Now first of all, let's go to our post model on the frontend in the angular code
and this shows us how a post looks like right now. A post in our application mainly has a title and
a content.
It also has an ID but this ID will be created automatically by mongoose for us,
so that's another convenience option,
we get that out of the box,
we don't have to create such a unique ID on our own. So we can instead focus on creating these schemas
on the backend and for that, I'll create a new folder there and I'll name it models too. Model, schema, we'll basically
be use that interchangeably here though actually, mongoose will differentiate between these two terms and
you'll see how in a second.
So in the models folder, in the backend folder, I'll add a new file and I'll name it
post.js because here I want to create my post model using mongoose. For that I'll first of all import
mongoose, const mongoose by using that require syntax where I require the mongoose package
of course. Now with that imported, we create a so-called schema,
that is how mongoose works,
you first of all create a blueprint for how your data should look like.
So I'll create a new constant and name it
post schema,
the name is up to you though, you could name this constant however you want and then I'll use the imported
mongoose package
and there we actually have a schema method we can call with a capital s, that's important.
So I will call schema here and to schema,
we pass a javascript object,
this object will hold our custom configuration.
Now how does such schema configuration look like?
Well we define the fields and the types of data we want to store in these fields, our posts in this case
should have.
So we simply add a property here, title and that is named title because I want it to be named title because
we also named it title on the frontend,
you could of course name this however you want, title and then the type. In its easiest form, you can just
add string as a type
here, just one important note, here in nodejs,
it's a string with a capital s, on the frontend in typescript, it's with a lowercase s.
Now don't confuse these two, typescript lowercase s,
nodejs and javascript in general, uppercase s.
So this is the simplest form of defining the title but mongoose actually gives you more power than that,
you can pass more details than just the type by passing a javascript object as a value for this title
prop
and there you can now define the type which again is string
but then you can also add some extra metadata, like for example you could say required true.
Now you can learn more about that in the mongoose docs, if
you click on read the docs, then you actually see a nice introduction to that whole schema thing and
in general how mongoose works and you can learn more about schemas and what you can add there, then you
can click on schema type here or on the left, schema types and then if you scroll down a bit, you see
that here, one schema type is required.
Another one would be default
for example, you could provide a default value here.
That of course does not really make sense if you have required set to true
but if it's not required, then you could provide a default value like hello.
Of course this does not make sense here, instead I want the user to enter the title but I do require
this and therefore we will actually get an error if we try to create this without having a title
property set, more on creating database on that schema later.
So title is one thing, the content is another field and it's a bit boring but it looks exactly the same,
it's also required true
and of course feel free to leave out required and instead set a default value for one of these fields
but for now this is the schema I want to work with,
we'll later revisit this and work on it a bit more.
Now with that schema defined, mongoose needs a so-called model to work with it.
The schema is really just the blueprint, not the thing we work with in our code,
just the blueprint. In order to actually create data or create models objects based on that definition
here,
we need to turn that definition into a model
and we do that by using the mongoose model function. There we passed two arguments, the first one is
the name of the model and here this should be post in our case, the name is up to you but it should start
with an upprcase character and it should of course make sense for the kind of data you are storing,
so here I'll name it post and the second argument is the schema you want to use,
so in my case the post schema.
Now it's important that I of course also want to use this outside of this file,
so it's this model which I'll export with the help of the module.exports syntax.
Now this mongoose model can be used outside of this model file.
So with this setup, let's use it in the app.js file
when we do send a post request to API posts.